PEP-636: complete missing sections and add TLDR appendix (#1658)
python/peps: pep-0636.rst

       case [action, obj]:
           ... # interpret action, obj

> The ``match`` statement evaluates the **"subject"** (the value after the ``match``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The match statement evaluates the **"subject"** (the value after the ``match``
```

keyword), and checks it against the **pattern** (the code next to ``case``). A pattern
is able to do two different things:

* Verify that the subject has certain structure. In your case, the ``[action, obj]``
  pattern matches any sequence of exactly two elements. This is called **matching**
* It will bind some names in the pattern to component elements of your subject. In
  this case, if the list has two elements, it will bind ``action = subject[0]`` and
  ``obj = subject[1]``.

> If there's a match, the statements inside the ``case`` clause will be executed with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there's a match, the statements inside the case block will be executed with the
```

> The ``match`` statement will check patterns from top to bottom. If the pattern doesn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The match statement will check patterns from top to bottom. If the pattern doesn't
```

match the subject, the next pattern will be tried. However, once the *first*

> matching pattern is found, the body of that ``case`` is executed, and all further

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matching pattern is found, the body of that case is executed, and all further
```

Until now, our patterns have processed sequences, but there are patterns to match
mappings based on their present keys. In this case you could use::

    for action in message:
        match action:
            case {"text": message, "color": c}:
                ui.set_text_color(c)
                ui.display(message)
            case {"sleep": duration}:
                ui.wait(duration)
            case {"sound": url, "format": "ogg"}
                ui.play(url)
            case {"sound": _, "format": _}
                warning("Unsupported audio format")

The keys in your mapping pattern need to be literals, but the values can be any
pattern. As in sequence patterns, all subpatterns have to match for the general
pattern to match. 

You can use ``**rest`` within a mapping pattern to capture additional keys in
the subject. Note that if you omit this, extra keys in the subject will be
ignored while matching, i.e. the message 
``{"text": "foo", "color": "red", "style": "bold"}`` will match the first pattern
in the example above. 

Matching objects
----------------

Our adventure is being a success and we have been asked to implement a graphical

> interface. Or UI toolkit of choice allows us to write an event loop where we can get a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface. Our UI toolkit of choice allows us to write an event loop where we can get a new
```

event object by calling ``event.get()``. The resulting object can have different type and
attributes according to the user action, for example:

* A ``KeyPress`` object is generated when the user presses a key. It has a ``key_name``

>   attribute with the name of the key pressed, and some other attributes regarding modifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  attribute with the name of the key pressed, and some other attributes regarding modifiers.
```

* A ``Click`` object is generated when the user clicks the mouse. It has an attribute

>   position with the coordinates of the pointer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``position`` with the coordinates of the pointer.
```

different kinds of objects, and also apply patterns to its attributes::

    match event.get():
        case Click(position=(x, y)):
            handle_click_at(x, y)
        case KeyPress(key_name="Q") | Quit():
            game.quit()
        case KeyPress(key_name="up arrow"):
            game.go_north()
        ...
        case KeyPress():
            pass # Ignore other keystrokes 
        case other_event:
            raise ValueError(f"Unrecognized event: {other_event}")

A pattern like ``Click(position=(x, y))`` only matches if the actual event is a subclass of
the ``Click`` class. It will also requires that the event has a ``position`` attribute
that matches the ``(x, y)`` pattern. If there's a match, the locals ``x`` and ``y`` will
get the expected values.

A pattern like ``KeyPress()``, with no arguments will match any object which is an
instance of the ``KeyPress`` class. Only the attributes you specify in the pattern are
matched, and any other attributes are ignored.

Matching positional attributes
------------------------------

The previous section described how to match named attributes when doing an object match.

> For some objects it could be desirable to describe the matched arguments positionally
> (especially if there are very few attributes to match that have a "standard" ordering).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some objects it could be convenient to describe the matched arguments by position
(especially if there are only a few attributes and they have a "standard" ordering).
```

> If the classes that you are using are named tuples or data classes, you can do that by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the classes that you are using are named tuples or dataclasses, you can do that by
```
(In the library docs, "dataclass" is consistently spelled without space. However, "named tuple" is spelled with a space. :-)

following the same order that you'd use when constructing an object. For example, if
the UI framework above defines their class like this::

    from dataclasses import dataclass

    @dataclass
    class Click:
        position: tuple
        button: str

then you can rewrite your match statement above as::

    match event.get():
        case Click((x, y)):
            handle_click_at(x, y)

> And the ``(x, y)`` pattern will be automatically matched against the ``position``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``(x, y)`` pattern will be automatically matched against the ``position``
```

attribute, because the first argument in the pattern corresponds to the first
attribute in your dataclass definition.

Other classes don't have a natural ordering of their attributes so you're required to
use explicit names in your pattern to match with their attributes. However, it's possible
to manually specify the ordering of the attributes allowing positional matching, like in
this alternative definition::

    class Click:

>         def __init__(...): # code omitted for brevity
>         __match_args__ = ["position", "button"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        __match_args__ = ["position", "button"]
        def __init__(self, position, button):
            ...
```

The ``__match_args__`` special attribute defines an explicit order for your attribtues
that can be used in patterns like ``case Click((x,y))``.

# TODO: special rules for builtin classes
# TODO: matching foo.bar as a constant

.. _Appendix A:

Appendix A -- Quick Intro
=========================

> A ``match`` statement takes an expression and compares its value to successive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A match statement takes an expression and compares its value to successive
```

> A ``match`` statement takes an expression and compares its value to successive
> patterns given as one or more ``case`` blocks.  This is superficially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A match statement takes an expression and compares its value to successive
patterns given as one or more case blocks.  This is superficially
```

> similar to a ``switch`` statement in C, Java or JavaScript (and many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similar to a switch statement in C, Java or JavaScript (and many
```

    class Click:
        position: tuple
        button: str

then you can rewrite your match statement above as::

    match event.get():
        case Click((x, y)):
            handle_click_at(x, y)

The ``(x, y)`` pattern will be automatically matched against the ``position``
attribute, because the first argument in the pattern corresponds to the first
attribute in your dataclass definition.

Other classes don't have a natural ordering of their attributes so you're required to
use explicit names in your pattern to match with their attributes. However, it's possible
to manually specify the ordering of the attributes allowing positional matching, like in
this alternative definition::

    class Click:
        __match_args__ = ["position", "button"]
        def __init__(self, position, button):
            ...

The ``__match_args__`` special attribute defines an explicit order for your attribtues
that can be used in patterns like ``case Click((x,y))``.

# TODO: special rules for builtin classes
# TODO: matching foo.bar as a constant

.. _Appendix A:

Appendix A -- Quick Intro
=========================

A match statement takes an expression and compares its value to successive

> patterns given as one or more ``case`` blocks.  This is superficially

Author: ```suggestion
patterns given as one or more case blocks.  This is superficially
```

                return "Unauthorized"
            case 403:
                return "Forbidden"
            case 404:
                return "Not found"
            case 418:

>                 return "I'm a teapot"

Reviewer: I understand the desire to shorten the example -- but 404 is the most well known error code in the world, and 418 brings a bit of levity. I'd drop 401 and 403 instead.

          case Color.BLUE:
              print("I'm feeling the blues :(")

- The literals ``None``, ``False`` and ``True`` are treated specially:
  comparisons to the subject are done using ``is``.  This::

      match b:
          case True:
              print("Yes!")

  is exactly equivalent to this::

      if b is True:

>           print("Yes!")

Reviewer: I feel that the special case for True/False/None is at least worth a brief mention. Maybe without example?
